30 September 2014


Dear Disqus Team

UI Engineer position.

Today, when reviewing the new “Update to Disqus Privacy Policy”, out of curiosity I checked the jobs you have listed and the “UI Engineer” title caught my eye. As I read the description I got the impression that it summed up the parts that I most like about my job, and would love to do it for years, specially in a growing company that has to keep up to date. 

So I've spent the rest of the day updating a bit my stagnant CV.

I strongly believe that I can bring a set of skills, creativity, enthusiasm, commitment and experience to your team. I am Designer by academic training and a self taught developer. I have 10 years of working experience in a variety of front-end languages and technologies, particularly good at HTML/CSS and JavaScript.

I am a self driven professional who has been at the service of multiple clients for the last eight years, some for several of those years. I deeply enjoy complex problems and even more as part of a team with whom to work on them. I am keen on understanding deeply each technology I have to work with.

You may find much more details about me and examples of my work on my on-line CV at http://iminabar.com (That's how my last name is pronounced).

I would love to be part of a company that has consistently been deploying a solid, creative and beautiful service for the web. Setting the example and the benchmark for the world's commenting systems. I use Disqus on my blog and would never go back.

Thank you for your time and specially for the fantastic software you build.

Hoping to hear from you.

Best regards

B. Agustín Amenábar L.
Camino Agua del Carrizal 9570, Lo Barnechea
Santiago, Chile

------------------------


30 September 2014


Dear Autodesk Team

Front End Visualforce Developer.

I am writing in response to a job posting found in glassdoor.com for an experienced Front End Visualforce Developer.

I strongly believe that I can bring a set of skills, creativity, enthusiasm, commitment and experience to your team. I am Designer by academic training and a self taught developer. I have 10 years of working experience in a variety of front-end languages and technologies, particularly good at HTML/CSS and JavaScript.

I am a self driven professional who has been at the service of multiple clients for the last eight years, some for several of those years. I deeply enjoy complex problems and even more as part of a team with whom to work on them. I am keen on understanding deeply each technology I have to work with.

You may find much more details about me and examples of my work on my on-line CV at http://iminabar.com (That's how my last name is pronounced).

As a practical note, I do not currently have a working visa for the US and would need a company sponsorship to get one.

Thank you for your time and I'm looking forward to hear from you.

Best regards

B. Agustín Amenábar L.
Camino Agua del Carrizal 9570, Lo Barnechea
Santiago, Chile
Mobile: +56982149514
On-line CV: http://iminabar.com

-----------------------------------


# Summary

﻿Front-end developer / designer

**Graphic Designer** by profession, **web developer** by choice, self employed most of my career.

Working on the web mostly passionately as a **front-end developer**, always integrating new technologies or new approaches into projects. Huge fan of the 80/20 principle, especially when time is scarce.

Giving wings to designers’ creativity, providing them with options and ideas has been my work for more than 8 years. Doing responsive design before the term was even coined (since the era of full Flash sites). A veteran ActionScript orphan, now in love with **front–end** technologies, **semantics**, **accessibility** and **progressive enhancement** mindset. Expert in developing for tight budgets and time constraints.

Doing the most varied client work since 2004, always elbow to elbow with designers. From UX to server–side optimization, a wide view of problems usually lets me find solutions where they are most effective.

## Skills, Languages and Tools

### Used Daily 

* HTML / CSS –  Progressive enhancement, mobile first, responsible responsive web design.
* JavaScript
* jQuery (5 years)
* NodeJS (< 1 year)
* HTML semantic markup (<i> isn’t for icon). (6 years)
* AJAX, JSON & RESTful APIs (3 years)
* Project management and Client relations. (8 years)
* User experience / UI design. (7 years)
* Sublime Text
* Google Chrome Developer Tools ♥
* Gulp
* Git / Github
* Command line / console

### Used Weekly

* SEO
* LAMP/WAMP server management (managing web-hosting for many clients).
* PHP : Several styles of coding. (7 years)
* 

### Every month
* Animation skills
* Illustration skills
* Pen and paper Sketching (colors too)
* NodeJS (tooling)
* SASS/Compass
* Adobe Photoshop
* Adobe Illustrator
* Charles web debugging proxy

### Less often

* Adobe Flash IDE (old friend)
* LESS
* Cacoo / Google Drawing (wireframing)
* MySQL, SQLite(7 years)
* OOP ActionScript 3 (spent many years doing that, still good at it).



******************* harvest *************************

My name is Agustín Amenabar and I am writing in response to a job posting found in weworkremotely.com for Javascript Developer.

You may find attached my CV. There are some questions in the job posting that prompt better answers than the regular cover letter. I answer below.

h3. Tell us why working at Harvest is appealing to you and why you are a great fit for Harvest.

Need you ask why is it appealing? I would love to work for Harvest because you are famous and cool, love the way your product looks, plus the complexity of all you tackle is just inviting. I'd love to code for such a nice product, I jumped at the job post when I saw Harvest. 

I believe I would fit for the job because I'm resourceful, enthusiast, committed, experienced, self motivated, good at communicating complex things and an optimist. During my whole career I have been trying out new technologies, constantly learning from the vanguard how to best apply it to a project. Though I wouldn't claim to be a vanguardist.

I would particularly like this position because it would allow me to focus and master modern Javascript development. If you want a Javascript rockstar I'm not your guy, if you want a seasoned developer who has stepped up to every challenge consider me for this position.

h3. Show us your GitHub projects and an impressive pull request. If you don't have one, make one!

I have some projects, SVG and picture has been my fetish for years, not so much in 2014 (too trendy and not much of a challenge anymore).

* https://github.com/baamenabar/svgfall
* https://github.com/baamenabar/polypicturefill (50 stars. yay!)

For me this was the year of NodeJS, Gulp and my AngularJS mobile app, a generator of mobile field guides for wild areas.

* repo at: https://github.com/baamenabar/vas
* project's page at http://huilmo.org/ and the google translated version is at: https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=es-419&sl=es&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fhuilmo.org%2F

Another popular project of mine is the jQUery image uploader and cropper, though I haven't updated it in a while. It's in use at many admin panels of my clients CMSs and some other peoples apps.

* repo: https://github.com/baamenabar/jQuery-File-Upload-and-Crop

Sadly no cool pull requests, barely some issues or suggestions, or a pull request for a fix in the documentation of jQuery: https://github.com/jquery/api.jquery.com/pull/470

h3. Share a writing example on a technical subject. A blog post, article or email you’ve written, via link or attachment.

There's plenty in my code blog; the more complex, the more I like writing about them. Some are:

* http://code.medula.cl/article_Animating-vapour-with-Javascript-on-canvas.html
* http://code.medula.cl/article_Picture-capture-and-uploader-app-with-ST2.html

h3. Tell us about your favorite hobby.

Horseback riding expeditions to the Andes mountains and getting lost there, with nothing but my camera, family and my handy machete. If there's no horses mountainbikes or walking are a good replacement. Finally spend days and days reviewing and "developing" the thousands of pictures of landscapes and biodiversity I usually take. During the regular year I like day hikes with my kids.

You may find much more details about me and examples of my work on my on-line CV at http://iminabar.com (That's how my last name is pronounced).

Thank you for the time you took at reading this.

Hoping to hear from you.

Best regards

B. Agustín Amenábar L.
Camino Agua del Carrizal 9570, Lo Barnechea
Santiago, Chile
Mobile: +56982149514
Skype: baamenabar

----------------------------------------------------------









----------------------------------------

Resume

﻿front-end developer / designer

Agustín Amenábar L.

full name: Bernardo Agustín Amenábar Larraín

ImINaBAR.com

Summary

Graphic Designer by profession, web developer by choice, self employed most of my career.

Mediating between clients, designers and their users, facilitating their interaction and goals through web technologies. Working on the web mostly passionately as a front-end developer, always trying to integrate new technologies or new approaches into projects. Huge fan of the 80/20 principle, especially when time is scarce.

Giving wings to designers’ creativity, providing them with options and ideas has been my work for more than 8 years. Doing responsive design before the term was even coined (since the era of full Flash sites). A veteran ActionScript orphan, now in love with front–end technologies, semantics and progressive enhancement. Particularly re-enchanted by Javascript in the recent years.

Doing the most varied client work since 2004, always elbow to elbow with designers. From UX to server–side optimization, a wide view of problems usually lets me find solutions where they are most effective.

Skills, Languages and Tools

In order of relevance

HTML / CSS – (6 years) + Progressive enhancement, mobile first, responsible responsive web design.
JavaScript (6 years)
AJAX, JSON & RESTful APIs (3 years)
User experience / UI design. (7 years)
HTML semantic markup (<i> isn’t for icon). (6 years)
Project management and Client relations. (8 years)
Animation skills
Illustration skills
SEO
LAMP/WAMP server management (managing web-hosting for many clients).
PHP : Several styles of coding. (7 years)
MySQL, SQLite(7 years)
OOP ActionScript 3 (spent many years doing that, still good at it).
Frameworks / CMSs

Listed here, in order of preference, is only what I’m fluent in and what I like working with. I have working knowledge of many more.

AngularJS (< 1 year)
Ionic (< 1 year)
jQuery (5 years)
NodeJS (< 1 year)
Drupal (2 year)
Perch (3 months)
Sencha Touch 2 (MVC JavaScript) (3 years)
WordPress (5 years)
Code Igniter (2 years)
Day to day Tools

My Toys

Sublime Text
Google Chrome Developer Tools ♥
Gulp (SASS, Compass, Autoprefixer, Lo-Dash)
Git / Github
Command line / console
Cacoo / Google Drawing
Pen and paper (colors too)
NodeJS (tooling)
Screencast-O-Matic
Adobe Photoshop
Adobe Illustrator
Charles web debugging proxy
Adobe Flash IDE (old friend)
LESS
Sqwiggle (remote working)

Dearest projects
================

All of the work in medula.cl has been done under my lead; most, directly by me. I have created several long relationships with customers and organizations which enable constant iteration of projects even on tight budgets. Some of the most notable are:

La Guía Silvestre / The Sylvan Guide : biodiversity and wild areas app.
------------------

(2014) huilmo.org

My baby, a project in the making. A compiler of biodiversity guides, each aimed at specific locations, with geolocation and local storage of information. It currently can load, process and import Missions from Project Noah and compile them in a Ionic web-app.

Initially started with Sencha Touch 2, but switched to Ionic + AngularJS + NodeJS and fell in love with them.

I applied the project for seed funding, but on september 2014 got rejected for not having enough potential profit.

Note: the huilmo.org website was hacked together from a lousy template in one night, not my code.

The repo can be found at: https://github.com/baamenabar/vas

DMJ Analytics
-------------

(2014) dmjanalytics.com

A deep exploration of authoring and managing SVG assets with modern tools like Gulp.

The SVG animation and CSS animations of SVG where also hand coded.

The site is small and optimized for mobile, responsibly responsive, mobile first.

Paz Vial: e-commerce
--------------------

(2010 – 2014) pazvial.cl

A long project that turned a Flash image gallery into a full fledged responsive on-line store. Custom code, front to back. Built as budget became available with frequent revisiting of each module. Designed the UI for the back-end and coded the whole site. Co-designed the client side defining visitor goals and tasks.

In 2012 coded the full front and back-end, integrating a modified version of my jQuery File Upload and Crop project.

In 2014’s iterations attention was put on building a mobile-first responsive redesign and code, optimized for speed.


VIK Winery e-commerce & promotional site
----------------------------------------

(2010 – 2014) vik.cl & vikwine.com

2014 we rebuild the wine store, mobile first and optimized for speed, plus several new modules for the store functionality.

2011 I did a complete rebuild of a Flash Site retaining most of the look and “responsive” layout, but coding with mobile-first responsive site. Including an adaptive images script which uses Javascript and PHP to load the adequate size images. The site was tested to work from IE7 to Blackberry 5, including common Android and iOS devices and browsers.

Aramark Chile Services offline mobile web-app
---------------------------------------------

(2013) Aramark services

The iPad version of an interactive presentation we did earlier that year for presenting Aramark’s services for the mining industries at Expo Nor (mining exposition).

Lead the team of 6 who developed the web app on short notice, from project management to the illustration team. Did the animation, some colouring and the coding.

It’s a website developed to fully work off-line as an app launched from the home screen, aimed at the iPad, but also works perfectly on mobile phones.


Driver: mobile app + WordPress

(2012) driver.cl

I conceived and completely developed the WDIT Android app. It was developed with Sencha Touch 2 and Cordova to be deployed as a proof of concept for improving security standards in a mine.

The application allows users to select the activities assigned to them and check every task or sub step which can be also verified by a picture that gets uploaded through the local server to AWS for storage an late analysis.

You can view some wireframes.

* admin panel wireframes PDF : http://iminabar.com/files/admin-web-dg.pdf
* mobile app wireframes PDF : http://iminabar.com/files/mobile-dg.pdf

The app has an admin back-end to generate and control activities, tasks, users and permissions.

Developed also a whole suite of web software. From a WordPress site, an internal document publishing web app, to a custom android app.

Some of this process I documented in my blog.

JZMusic: event production + clients accounts
--------------------------------------------

(2012 – 2013) jzmusic.cl

My earliest client, since our first conversation 10 years ago, he has had creative ideas about his site, together we have built many tools his clients love.

This latest version is a full responsive, mobile first website. Custom JavaScript throughout the site. Drupal private site for the clients’ events, with a playlist generator. (ask me for access to a demo account)

Other e-commerce
----------------

I have done several more e-commerce and e-commerce-like sites, some of the ones that remain online are:

Hot Tub Repair and Service LLC
http://catalinaamenabar.cl/appp/ This is a mobile sales app I did in a weekend for a pastry shop (The website too).
e-commerce for a now closed Video games shop: http://goodgame.cl/ (archive)


Work Experience
===============

May 2005 – April 2006: VOXEL MULTIMEDIA
---------------------------------------

Client services agency dedicated to 3 areas:

Graphic Design, interactive design and web development.
Audiovisual production and post-production.
3D modeling, animation and rendering.
Charge: Designer / Web Designer.

Responsibilities:

Design and development of multimedia interactive software (Flash and Director).
Design and development of websites.


May 2006 – Sept 2014: VOXEL DISEÑO→ MEDULA DISEÑO
-------------------------------------------------

Client services agency dedicated to Graphic Design, interactive design, web and software development. Branch of Voxel Multimedia. On April of 2009 one partner sold his part to my wife and me and we became Médula Diseño where my wife Violeta Sánchez E. does most of the design job and I the development.

Charge: Partner and Senior Developer.

Responsibilities:

Project management.
Design and development of websites.
Design and development of custom web software.
Design and development of multimedia interactive software (Flash and Director).

Personal projects
=================

Some work fine and I use everyday, some are work in progress; all could use some more work.

* The Sylvan Guide : https://github.com/baamenabar/vas Wild areas and biodiversity guide, built in AngularJS and Ionic. It's a simple working demo, more info at huilmo.org:http://huilmo.org
* SVGfall : https://github.com/baamenabar/svgfall SVG images with reliable fast fallback to bitmap (now on version 2).
* GULP+CSS Boilerplate with Styleguide : https://github.com/MedulaDesign/guia-estilo A simple web Styleguide which works well as a CSS+HTML boilerplate.
* jQuery File Upload and Crop : https://github.com/baamenabar/jQuery-File-Upload-and-Crop Friendly multiple image uploader with a crop window. Forked from BlueImp's jQuery Uploader : https://github.com/blueimp/jQuery-File-Upload.
* Draggable elements bookmarklet : https://github.com/baamenabar/draggable-bookmarklet jQuery and jQuery UI bookmarklet to easily make any element draggable with relative, absolute or fixed positioning.
* Liquen-php : https://github.com/baamenabar/Liquen-php PHP image manipulation class (resize, crop and caching) Demo:http://m0.cl/liquen-php/
* PNG with PHP : https://github.com/baamenabar/simplePNGwPHP GET a simple PNG entering width, height and RGBA values.
* Medula codeBlog / SLyP : https://github.com/baamenabar/codeBlog My attempt to build a static blog generator after only hearing about Jekyll. Still remains as my code blog.
* Musicador : https://github.com/baamenabar/Musicador Music player designed for non-destructive cropping of songs to create, manage and migrate music for _roleplaying_ sessions (mp3 files).


Education
=========

School
------

Colegio Cumbres, Santiago, Chile.
(1986 – 1998)

College
-------

Universidad Finis Terrae (1999 – 2005)
Bachelor’s degree in Graphic Design.

Languages
---------
Bilingual in English and Spanish.

Personal information
====================

Full name: Bernardo Agustín Amenábar Larraín
Birth date: March 14, 1981
Address: 
Camino agua del Carrizal 9570, Lo barnechea 
Santiago, Chile
email: baamenabar@gmail.com
Telephone: +562 2918 0224
Nationality: Chilean
Marital status: Married ♥

Some links of me elsewhere
==========================

Code Blog: http://code.medula.cl/
Github https://github.com/baamenabar
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ImINaBAR
G+: https://plus.google.com/114857870646629444715/
Flickr: http://www.flickr.com/photos/39820277@N05/
The Noun Project: http://thenounproject.com/agustin.amenabar/
My own company’s portfolio http://medula.cl/
